- [Instructor] In any distributed architecture,
it's fundamentally important
to avoid a single point of failure.
Swarm mode is a new mode
that is introduced in Docker 1.12
and exactly allows you to do that.
So, let's see what it is.
Well, Swarm Mode, as we said,
it was a new feature introduced in 1.12.
Prior to 1.12,
there is a legacy swarm that already exists,
but this is sort of the recommended mode going forward.
Swarm Mode is natively managing
a cluster of Docker engines together
and a bunch of engines sitting around together
is called a swarm.
Once the Swarm Mode is created,
whether it's a single host or a multiple host,
you can use your Docker CLI,
which is exactly what we've been doing so far,
to deploy either to a single host
or to a swarm of hosts.
You can deploy your apps,
manage your Swarm Mode cluster
using the Docker CLI.
An important part is Swarm Mode
is integrated into Docker engine,
but it's an optional feature.
And optional means it needs to be explicitly enabled,
as we'll see in a second.
And once again as we said earlier,
Swarm mode allows you to have no single point of failure.
Your truly multi-container applications
can now be deployed
in a multi-host environment as well.
It has a declarative state model.
So just like in Docker Compose
you can define what your services look like.
Those models can then be now defined
and deployed in Swarm Mode as well.
The Swarm Mode cluster is self-organizing, self healing.
What that means is,
you get a declarative state of a service,
we want three replicas,
and it will make sure those three replicas exist.
If a container on a node dies,
then the container is rescheduled
on a different node.
There is service discovery,
which allows a database to be discovered
by an application server.
There is load balancing,
where a number of database instances
can be very easy to load balance,
and there is of course scaling up and down
of a service as well.
And last but not the least,
we'll also take a look
at some of the rolling update functionality
and how version 1 of a service
deployed in a multiple host,
can be easily upgraded to version 2 of a service.
Let's try to understand a little bit of internals,
not that you need to know,
but this is useful to understand.
So, on the top,
what you see in the yellow boxes is Swarm Manager.
It is highly recommended
that you have an odd number of Swarm Managers.
And then on the bottom,
what you see is Workers.
Well, why is it recommended
to have an odd number of Managers?
First of all,
Docker Swarm uses a Raft consensus group.
The reason why Docker Swarm mode
is using a consensus algorithm
is to make sure that all the Manager Nodes
that are in charge of managing and scheduling tasks
in the cluster
are storing the same consistent state.
There is no limit on the number of Manager nodes.
This isn't about how many Manager nodes to implement,
it's a trade off between performance and fall tolerance.
Adding Manager nodes to a swarm
makes a swarm more fall tolerant,
however, additional manager nodes
reduce write performance
because more nodes must acknowledge proposals
to update the swarm state.
This means more network-run traffic.
On the bottom,
you see the Worker nodes.
The Worker nodes talk to each other
using Gossip Network.
These are internals of how Swarm Managers
really work with each other,
and Swarm Workers work with each other.
It's just good to know.
The Manager node and the Worker node,
they communicate with each other,
but the key part for you
is to understand how your Managers
are ultimately secure by default.
When starting your first Manager,
Docker engine will generate a new certificate authority,
and a set of initial certificates for you.
After this initial step,
every node joining the server
will automatically be issued a new certificate
with a randomly generate ID
and the current role in the swarm,
whether it is a Manager or a Worker.
These certificates will be used
as their cryptographically secure node identity
for the lifetime of their participation
in the swarm,
and will be used by the Managers
to ensure secure dissemination of tasks
and other updates.
Now one of the biggest barriers typically
of adoption of TLS,
has been the difficulty of creating,
configuring, and maintaining
the necessary PKI, or Public Key Infrastructure.
With Docker 1.12,
everything not only gets set up
and configured with safe defaults for you,
but also automated
one of the most painful parts of dealing
with TLS certificates,
which is certificate rotation.
Under the hood, essentially,
every node participating in the swarm
is constantly refreshing its certificates,
ensuring that potentially leaked
or compromised certificates are no longer valid.
The frequency with which certificates are rotated
can be configured by the user
and set as low as every 30 minutes.
Now that gives me much more confidence
in terms of the deployment
and making sure it's secure.
If you would like to use your own certificate authority,
there is also support
for an external CA, or a certificate authority node,
where the Managers in the swarm
simply relay the certificate signing request
of the nodes
attempting to join the cluster
to a remote URL.
So we looked at sort of the basics, fundamentals
of Docker Swarm Mode now,
let's take a look at what can we do
with our Docker for Mac essentially to begin with.
Here, I'm in my Terminal.
So the command to initialize Docker Swarm
as you would expect, is docker swarm.
And our magic help word is --help.
So if I say docker swarm --help,
it shows me all the commands that are available to me.
The main command that we want to look at
is docker swarm init.
So I'm going to say docker swarm init,
and that initializes the swarm mode
for this single host for me.
Initializing Swarm Mode on a Windows machine
is slightly different.
Well, we can use the same command,
docker swarm init, which is what we have typed
in the console here,
but in addition,
we also need to use a switch,
called as advertise address.
And what does it do?
Well, this flag specifies the address
that will be advertised
to the other members of the swarm
for API access and overlay networking.
If you don't specify it,
then the Docker will check if the system
is a single IP address and use that IP address
with the listening port.
There is a default listening port
that it listens to.
But in our case,
because there are multiple ports now,
or multiple hosts,
so we need to specify the exact host IP address.
In our case, it's 192.168.99.100,
and once we specify that as IP address,
this is where the other members
of the swarm node will listen to for requests,
and now you can see my Swarm Mode
is easily initialized on a Windows machine.
The beauty is,
whether you're running in a multi-host environment
or a single-host environment,
Docker Swarm
will behave exactly the same.
In a sense, once you deploy the service init,
how service scaling works,
how service discovery works,
how service load-balancing works,
you can test all of that in a single node,
and then easily scale it to multi-host.
Now here of course,
it creates a single node.
By default, this first node of the cluster
is always a Manager.
Now Manager is for an administrative purpose,
but containers can run on it as well.
So, once this is created,
then we can say okay,
show me more details about the cluster.
So I would say docker info.
Once I do docker info here,
let's go to the top here,
and see what it will show me.
It says 5 containers are running,
of total 5 containers,
1 is running from our previous run, 4 stopped,
7 images, all that is good.
We have seen this similar information earlier.
Let's scroll down a little bit.
Here is a key word for us,
now we're seeing Swarm is active.
So this is a Swarm node,
and here it also says Is Manager is true.
What that means is that this is a Manager node.
The total number of Managers is 1.
Total number of nodes is 1.
So you kind of start getting more details
about the swarm cluster itself.
You can scroll down here.
It gives you the Manager address,
which is the default address that is assigned over here.
And you can scroll down
to see some more details
about the Docker Swarm Mode.
Now this is the default mode
where a single Manager is running.
If you want to leave this,
then you can say docker swarm leave.
By default, it will not let you leave
if you are the only node in the cluster,
because you are the manager.
However, we can again brute force it,
and then we can leave the cluster.
In this section,
you got introduced to what a Swarm Mode cluster is,
and using Docker for Mac,
how can you create a single-node Swarm Mode cluster,
and how you can leave it.